My granny told me to go to church
To meet a nice Catholic girl
So I suited up
Put my Sunday best on
I gotta give this a whirl
Granny ain't lying
This girl in the front row
Got a booty that's just to fine
Holla girl, you over there
The one with the booty and the pristine hair
Meet me back in my Chevrolet
Holy hell, what the shit
The perfect mix of thick and fit
About to be all up on my dick (yeah)
Church turned this one day
Right into a fun day
Pencil me in for every Sunday

Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Oh, Lord, Lord. Yes you do

Lord, Lord, Lord, Lord
(Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus.)
Yeah, you need Jesus

My girl said, "Let's go
Gotta get to church, yo."
And I said "Hell no, but you can suck my dick, though."
She grabed me by the shoulder (ow)
"Get in the truck
You'll have to come with me if you ever wanna fuck." (but football)
Now I'm sitting at mass and who do I see?
It's my god damn bitch teacher from grade three (bitch)
On her knees, hands crossed, her eyes are closed
Funny got in trouble with the gym teacher while in that same pose
Across the way the hottest chick in town
Was praying for forgiveness for getting all around (eww)
Now I'm not saying she's prone to sin
But she's basically a modern day Mary Magdalen (cough slut)
Now the entire time the priest was talking to Jesus
"He came down as a man. He came down to free us."
He actually seemed like a pretty cool guy
If he were still alive, I'd invite him to some Tiki Time


Nine a.m. I'ma bust out the grass
Damn straight I'm getting high before mass
Walk in reeking through the elegant doors
More stoned than an old testament whore
Eyes red as the devils dick
I've got the munchies, can't wait for the Eucharist
I'll be sipping on wine
Worshiping the divine
Glorifying the most high
With the dopest of rhymes
I'm hoping to find Christ;
Lord knows I need him
If I'm not already going to hell I'll give God a reason
Walk up to the priest during his homily and
Drag him from podium
Kicking and screaming
Pick up the mic and spit
Fuck this shit
I'm running the church
Gospel of Nate chapter four verse
Twenty, and the Lord said
Honor the Sabbath, today's Sunday fun day
Lead the congregation straight out the door
Bumping Ghetto Gospel on the way to the liquor store
Party at the beach, DJ spin it again-
Sunday Funday. Can I get an amen?

Hey, hey, everybody it's Sunday
Sleeping past noon gonna be another fun day
All my homies are stuck at church
But I'm throwing on a bears T-shirt
Devil would dig my rolling skills fo-sheezy
Good God, I just puffed another bleezy
Instead of listening to what the preacher had to say
I lit up another mother fucking jay
Good Lord suddenly there's candles
Swear to God I was hoverin' among angels
Sweet baby Jesus took me and said, "Let's go."
Packed a bowl of the heavenly medical
Floating among the clouds, sobriety's what I wrestle
Sweet Mary's bosom's where I nestled
'till God came and bitch slapped my mental
Shit, now I'm laying on the ground
My boy Nate Dawg just snagged a pound
Sunday Funday is now my background sound
Every one of my bros are out
We're trying to burn a few down


Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus
Y'all mother fuckers need Jesus