Cvees (ft. Probe DMS) - “For You”


Yo, I’ll sometimes hate making beats around my peeps ‘cause
When I’ll press, they’ll always got something to say like
“Yo (Yo), why your tempo so slow and
(Yo) Yo (Yo, yo), why your chords be so mellow?”  But
I’ll stay cool like Jell-O even though I’m upset
They’ll talk about being amped when my art is the subject
And every time I’ll start a project, I’ll hear them yapping about
Platinum and me not reaching the charts yet, not realizing
I take it to heart.  And if you understood
That, well then just know that this one is
For you

This one is for you (This one is for you), this one is for you (This one is for you)
This one is for you (This one is for you), this one is for you (This one is for you)
This one is for you

And each and every one in my crew
Don’t me mad.  Just be glad for the things that I do
I’m the known king of slang.  Watch them niggas cling to
My bozack.  Talking this and that, I’ll have my girl sing to
A fool.  Use each and every one of my tools
To have them thirst niggas drooling.  Cats be mad ‘cause I’m a-
-llergic to high hats.  They’d rather have shiny raps
Come on, who you fooling?  I’m all into music
Not only do I like it dirty, grimy, infused with
Jazz.  You got to represent hip hop and rap your ass off
Not ten percent hip hop, ninety percent do a rap song
If it’s true that this is what you do, well then this is for you
 (x8)
And this is for you (And this is for you), and this is for you (And this is for you)

Instead of getting props, I’m getting hours to swap tracks
You act like you wear the time—yo, stop that
And you don’t rule Cvees and
And I know majority, two out of three wins
Fuck it.  Don’t rhyme on my tracks, then try
To climb on my back after I blow when I’m fat
I’ll design serene tracks to ease back
And write in lash mode to keep drops intact
Probe a hundred percent hip hop, not rap.  I’ll never
Drip drop or hit the pit stop.  I’ll never
Flip flop or floss a wristwatch.  Hot
Damn, I’m a man that’ll get props.  And if
You stand in my way, you’ll just get mopped, so please
Stop popping all that shit.  I’m getting sick like
The flu, switched up my whole damn crew
Pimped ‘em.  If you got these symptoms, well then this for you
 (x8)
And this is for you (And this is for you), and this is for you (And this is for you)

You’re mad ‘cause I’ll rock a Lo cap with a knapsack
Damn right, motherfucker, I’m a backpacker
And I’ll attack any of you sad, wack rappers
We’re real hip hoppers and y’all are all actors
We’re true emcees—y’all could all see the factors
Of beats on envy and graffiti in the flat book
Float on my back with the flow that’s spectacular
Hold that, revert back to old rap vernacular
In case you forgot, my main
Purpose is to preserve real hip hop, and all
Y’all deserve that hot hip hop, so here
It go.  Shit, play it out of control.  That’s how
We do it.  New shit out of the blue, kid
You stick it in the... with the phlegm as the fluid
You nah’m saying?  Shit.  If you’re listening
To my crew, well you definitely know that this is for you
 (x16)
And this is for you (And this is for you), and this is for you (And this is for you)