Yeah
With his black beanie, he walks in the dead of night
Only way to see him is if he's lit up by streetlights
He's slightly taller than the average human height
But the shadow he casts might easily give one fright
He's peaceful, but you wouldn't know it
Two kids at home he was grocery shopping
Somethin' was stolen from the other side of the store;
Owner quickly noted the suspector looked like him
Now at him police think copacetic (?)
They Came lurkin', under radio guidance
They crept up on him, walkin' in complete silence
They clicked the loaded gun and frightened the gentle giant
With sirens he's blinded but by their rules he's still abiding-
Hands up!
Don't shoot!
It wasn't me, officer, I have proof!
He nods to his pants and moves slowly to get his license
The officers feel threatened and yell, "target is frightened"-

Praise God
Stay blessed
They shootin' baby birds right outta the nest;
We gotta learn to fly fast, 'cause if we don't do it quick
They gon' cut down the trees that's carrying our chicks
Praise God
Stay blessed
They shootin' baby birds right outta the nest;
We gotta learn to fly fast, 'cause if we don't do it quick
They gon' burn down the trees that's carrying our chicks
Stay blessed

So we sit
And now he’s crying, he whispers “I’m tired of all my friends dying”
I say look homie wish I couldn’t agree, then he slams his fist on the table and says
“What if it’s me??
What if it’s you; what if it’s your brother, sister
Mother or anybody from out your crew?
What ‘bout someone you ain’t knew?
What would you do, if you turned on the news
And someone who looked like you was see-through?
I’m just asking, why?”
Why? … why don’t they understand, we’re just kids man c’mon

Yo
Listen homie come and give me a hug
We’re products of the news outlets, our people ain’t thugs
These cops show us no love, and no matter what they say
I’m never gonna let a nigga with a badge take you away

(Yeah! Go! Go! Go! Go!)
We Praise God
(Yeah!)

(God bless the child from a broken home
God bless the woman raise him all alone
God bless the seed lost him all too soon
God bless the killer darkness consumes)
(God bless the child from a broken home
God bless the woman raise him all alone
God bless the seed lost him all too soon
And god bless the child  all too soon
Stay Blessed.)
(Yeah)